---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to My Thought Process"
---
Before we get started, let me make a small, tiny, teensy little detailed clarification about my stances on things:

* They are welcome to change depending on new data!

I do not perceive my stances as being permanent. They are simply the best answers I have come up with so far. That is what being pragmatic allows someone to do - knowing that my position isn't perfect. Knowing that while I do not have a permanent solution to the problem, I am always looking for the answer that offers the best solution right now. 

This process doesn't involve my ego, at least to the best of my ability. I try to make every attempt to look at each proposal to addressing a challenge and evaluate them based on their impact, cost, and desired outcome. The first step involves as much analysis as I can muster without allowing my values to sway my determinations, and subsequent rounds find my personal touch involved. My personal bias affects my decision making, and understanding it and acknowledging it allows me to better identify whether I like something because it is a good solution on merit alone, or because it is something that appeals to what drives my conduct.

It is my belief that when it comes to what inspires the thoughts and motivations of a person, there are values and there are opinions. Values are usually less likely to change over time, and are core elements to an individual's sense of self. They are as much a part of an identity as a fingerprint. Opinions, however, are pliable. Opinions can evolve as the environment around them forces them to be re-evaluated. For instance, I may have a value that places a premium on all forms of life, pushing me to be a vegetarian, but I could hold an opinion that I don't care for a particular genre of food based on a bad experience at a single point in time. I'm much more likely to change the opinion if new experiences come into my life than I am to change the value that makes me a vegetarian.

And while you might be fooled into thinking that values that are held onto without change for significant periods of time are really just values by another name, please, do not fall into that catacomb of falsehoods. If an opinion does not change over a significant period of time, it simply means one of two things has happened - first, either the opinion was not challenged, or the "environment" around it never changed, allowing for a natural reconsideration of the validity of that opinion, or second, the person holding the opinion has not reconsidered the answer to the question leading to their opinionated answer because they prefer whatever their personal current answer is.

This is a long winded way of saying this: if you want real, meaningful change and real meaningful opinions, you must constantly find ways tochallenge your own thoughts and your own beliefs. Allow yourself to be immersed by the opinions and values of those different to you, while placing those new perspectives against the root problem you are trying to solve. After all, if we aren't trying to solve a problem, then what are we doing here at all? And to those who do not understand that notion, please stop at the next large tree you find and ask yourself "what person planted this for the betterment of those who would come after?"

If you're still feeling lost at this point, I don't blame you. I've re-read what I wrote above a few times now, and while I'm pretty happy with the quality of the writing, the topic itself is abstract and hard to enumerate to those who may not have ever considered the topics to begin with. 

This is how I will be evaluating anything that I write about. Anything that I think about goes through this process. And anything that I have an assertion or belief about, is driven as an outcome of this cycle. I look forward to hearing from anyone reading this blog in the future as a form of environmental change that can help me come to alternative conclusions, if they have merit and introduce new facts or perspectives that I have not previously identified, I am likely to alter my own opinion on a solution. However, don't expect me to take all input and just regurgitate what you sell me. I'm going to defend my stances, because debate drives better outcomes. 
